
=== PAGE 1 ===
European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, Solna, Sweden
www.ecdc.europa.eu
Classified as ECDC NORMAL 
 Week 31, 25–31 July 2026
This week’s topics
1. Ebola disease outbreak caused by Bundibugyo virus – Democratic Republic of the Congo and
Uganda – 2026
2. Seasonal surveillance of chikungunya virus disease - 2026 (weekly)
3. Seasonal surveillance of dengue in the EU/EEA, weekly report
4. Seasonal surveillance of West Nile Virus infections – 2026 (Weekly report)
5. Seasonal surveillance of Crimean-Congo haemorrhagic fever - 2026 (Weekly report)
6. Seasonal monitoring of environmental suitability for Vibrio spp. risk in coastal waters - Bathing
season 2026
7. Overview of respiratory virus epidemiology in the EU/EEA, week 30, 2026
8. World Pride - Netherlands - 2026
9. Expert deployment
10. Avian influenza A(H9N2) – Multi-country (World) – Monitoring human cases
11. Cholera – Multi-country (World) – Monitoring global outbreaks – Monthly update
Executive summary
Ebola disease outbreak caused by Bundibugyo virus – Democratic Republic of the Congo
and Uganda – 2026
• As of 29 July 2026, the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) reported a total of 3 442
confirmed cases and 1 521 confirmed related deaths (based on data until 28 July). Since the
beginning of the outbreak, five provinces have been affected: Ituri, North Kivu, South Kivu,
Tshopo, and Haut-Uele.
•  In Uganda, no new cases have been reported since 21 June 2026. The country has reported a
total of 20 confirmed cases, including two deaths. On 28 July 2026, Uganda's Ministry of Health
declared the end of the Ebola disease outbreak.
• On the basis of the available information, and given the uncertainties surrounding this outbreak,
the likelihood of infection for people from the EU/EEA living in or travelling to affected areas is
estimated to be low. Given the very low likelihood of importation and secondary transmission,
the likelihood of infection for people living in the European Union/European Economic Area
(EU/EEA) is estimated to be very low. This assessment will be reviewed as further information
becomes available.
• ECDC is monitoring the outbreak through epidemic intelligence activities and actively liaising
with partners to support the response.
=== PAGE 2 ===
SURVEILLANCE REPORT Weekly Communicable Disease Threats Report, Week 31, 25–31 July 2026
 2
Seasonal surveillance of chikungunya virus disease - 2026 (weekly)
• Since the beginning of 2026 and as at 29 July 2026, one country in Europe has reported locally
acquired cases of chikungunya: France (one case).
• This is the first locally acquired case of chikungunya reported this season.
Seasonal surveillance of dengue in the EU/EEA, weekly report
• Since the beginning of 2026 and as at 29 July 2026, one country in Europe has reported locally
acquired cases of dengue: France (one case).
• This week, no new cases of dengue have been reported to ECDC.
Seasonal surveillance of West Nile Virus infections – 2026 (Weekly report)
• Since the beginning of the 2026 transmission season, and as at 29 July, 35 areas affected by
West Nile virus (WNV) have been identified in seven countries across Europe.
• These areas are located in Italy (30), Greece (eight), Romania (four), North
Macedonia (two), Spain (two), France (two), and Germany (one).
Seasonal surveillance of Crimean-Congo haemorrhagic fever - 2026 (Weekly report)
• Since the beginning of 2026, and as at 29 July 2026, one country in Europe has reported
locally-acquired cases of Crimean-Congo haemorrhagic fever (CCHF): Spain (three cases).
• One new province of Spain is reporting a locally-acquired CCHF case this week.
Seasonal monitoring of environmental suitability for Vibrio spp. risk in coastal waters -
Bathing season 2026
• Vibriosis is caused by naturally occurring Vibrio bacteria found in coastal waters, particularly in
warm, brackish environments. In Europe, Vibrio bacteria are most frequently detected during
the summer season, with the Baltic Sea being particularly favourable due to its low salinity
levels.
• A warmer climate is expected to increase the suitability of coastal areas for Vibrio growth and
expansion.
• ECDC monitors environmental suitability for Vibrio growth in EU/EEA coastal waters and
publishes regular updates through the Vibrio Viewer  and the Communicable Disease Threat
Reports  to assess and communicate the potential risk to human health across the EU/EEA.
Overview of respiratory virus epidemiology in the EU/EEA, week 30, 2026
• Respiratory virus activity across EU/EEA countries remains at baseline levels, indicating limited
circulation of respiratory viruses.
• SARS-CoV-2 activity remains low across all age groups in both primary and secondary care
settings; Both Influenza virus and Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) activity are low, at
inter-seasonal levels.
• All data are provisional and may be affected by reporting delays, incomplete country data or low
testing volumes. A few countries with high testing rates can disproportionately influence pooled
data. Further information is available under ‘Country notes’ and ‘Additional resources’.
World Pride - Netherlands - 2026
• Since the start of the monitoring period on 20 July, and as of 31 July, no relevant events related
to communicable diseases have been detected in the context of World Pride 2026.
• World Pride 2026 will take place in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, from 25 July to 8 August
2026. The event is expected to attract a high number of participants, including international
visitors from across the European Union/European Economic Area (EU/EEA).
• The probability of acquiring a sexually transmitted infection (STI) or other infection that can
spread through sexual contact is increased for people attending World Pride 2026 who engage
in sex with non-steady and multiple partners, particularly if preventive measures are not
consistently applied.
=== PAGE 3 ===
SURVEILLANCE REPORT Weekly Communicable Disease Threats Report, Week 31, 25–31 July 2026
 3
Expert deployment
• Since 19 May 2026, the EU Health Task Force (EUHTF) has been deploying experts to support
preparedness and response efforts related to the Ebola disease outbreak caused by Bundibugyo
virus in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and Uganda.
• Two experts are currently deployed to support Africa CDC within the Continental Incident
Management Support Team (IMST) in Uganda. These deployments are part of the project
'Health Security and One Health in Africa - Africa CDC' in partnership with ECDC and EFSA
(PHASE II) and funded by the European Commission's Directorate-General for International
Partnerships (DG INTPA).
• Since 14 July, two ECDC fellows have also been deployed through the Global Outbreak Alert and
Response Network (GOARN) to the WHO country office in Juba, South Sudan, to support
surveillance and data analysis activities.
• These activities are being conducted in close coordination with national authorities and the EU
delegations and in collaboration with the Directorate-General for European Civil Protection and
Humanitarian Aid Operations (DG ECHO) and DG INTPA.
Avian influenza A(H9N2) – Multi-country (World) – Monitoring human cases
• Four human cases of avian influenza A(H9N2) virus infection in China were reported in the
Avian Influenza Weekly Update  published on 31 July 2026 by WHO Western Pacific Region.
• The cases, which were geographically distinct from each other, involved two children and two
adults. Two cases had mild illness and two were hospitalized; all of them recovered.
• Prior to illness onset, all four cases had either direct or indirect exposure to poultry.
• The risk related to zoonotic avian influenza (due to A(H9N2) viruses) for the general population
in the EU/EEA is currently considered very low.
Cholera – Multi-country (World) – Monitoring global outbreaks – Monthly update
• Since 1 January 2026 and as of 27 July 2026, 132 313 cholera cases, including 1 556 deaths,
have been reported worldwide.
• Since 22 June 2026 and as of 27 July 2026, 8 247 new cholera cases, including 326 new
deaths, have been reported worldwide.
• The five countries reporting most cases are Democratic Republic of the Congo (3 841), Sudan
(1 502), Somalia (962), Central African Republic (445) and Malawi (383).
• The five countries reporting most new deaths are Sudan (153), Democratic Republic of the
Congo (105), Central African Republic (36), Angola (12) and Cameroon (12).
• In addition, on 23 June 2026, Taiwan Centers for Disease Control reported a locally-acquired
case of cholera in a woman in her 70s with no recent travel history. The patient was
hospitalised and, following treatment, her condition improved and she was discharged.
• Cholera cases have continued to be reported in Africa, Asia, the Middle East, and the Americas.
The risk of cholera infection for travellers visiting these countries remains low, even though
sporadic importation of cases to the EU/EEA is possible.
1. Ebola disease outbreak caused by
Bundibugyo virus – Democratic Republic
of the Congo and Uganda – 2026
Overview:
Latest epidemiological information
Democratic Republic of the Congo
On 29 July 2026, the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) published a situation update
reporting a total of 3 442 confirmed cases, including 1 521 related deaths (from data up until 28
July). A total of 797 patients are hospitalised in isolation. This represents an increase of 82 new
confirmed cases and 34 deaths since the previous report of 28 July (reporting data up until 27 July).
In total, 78.3 % of identified case contacts are under follow-up in the Ituri, North Kivu, Haut-Uele
=== PAGE 4 ===
SURVEILLANCE REPORT Weekly Communicable Disease Threats Report, Week 31, 25–31 July 2026
 4
and Tshopo provinces. Overall, 49 of 140 health zones are currently affected across the five
provinces.
Data reported by DRC on confirmed cases and deaths are under continuous review and
harmonisation.
Uganda
As of 17 July 2026, a total of 20 confirmed cases, including two deaths, have been reported by the
Ministry of Health  in Uganda. The last confirmed case was reported on 21 June and no new cases
have been reported since then. On 16 July, Uganda discharged the last Ebola patient who had been
receiving treatment at the Mulago National Referral Isolation Centre. On 28 July 2026, twelve days
since the last case was discharged, the Uganda's Ministry of Health  declared the end of the Ebola
disease outbreak.
Summary
On 15 May 2026, Africa CDC reported an outbreak of Ebola disease in Ituri Province, DRC (Africa
CDC Calls Urgent Regional Coordination Meeting Following Ebola Virus Disease Outbreak in Ituri, 15
May 2026 , Africa CDC Special Briefing on Ebola Virus Disease Outbreak Status, 16 May 2026 ).
Laboratory analysis at the Institut National de Recherche Biomedicale of DRC identified Bundibugyo
virus (Democratic Republic of the Congo confirms new Ebola outbreak, WHO scales up support |
WHO AFRO, 15 May 2026 ).
Clusters of community deaths have been reported, including deaths among healthcare workers in
DRC (Epidemic of Ebola Disease caused by Bundibugyo virus in the Democratic Republic of the
Congo and Uganda determined a public health emergency of international concern, 17 May 2026 ,
Ebola disease caused by Bundibugyo virus, Democratic Republic of the Congo (The) & Uganda ).
The Ministry of Health of DRC reported that the index case was a nurse (age unknown) who died in a
healthcare facility in Bunia (capital of Ituri Province). The case presented with fever, bleeding,
vomiting and weakness (Ministère de la Santé RDC Declaration of Ebola Outbreak 15 May 2025) .
However, the outbreak is likely to have started many weeks before, given the number of cases and
the geographical spread.
On 18 May 2026, a US citizen working in healthcare in the affected areas tested positive and was
transferred to Germany, together with six high-risk contacts (US CDC Update on Ebola Outbreak, 18
May 2026 , Serge News and Updates, 18 May 2026 ). The American doctor subsequently recovered
well and was discharged from the hospital in Berlin, where he was treated (Ebola patient discharged
from Charite hospital in Berlin in good health, 6 June 2026 ). Another contact of US nationality was
transferred to Czechia (US CDC Transcript -19 May 2026 ). On 24 June, the Ministry of Health in
France reported  a first positive case of Ebola virus disease, identified in a doctor returning from a
humanitarian mission to one of the areas affected by the ongoing outbreak in DRC.
On 10 July 2026, the US CDC reported  that a US citizen who was working for a humanitarian
organisation in DRC has tested positive for Bundibugyo virus. The patient was medically evacuated
to Germany on 13 July 2026  and is currently under treatment. This is the second US citizen during
this outbreak that has tested positive in DRC and is receiving treatment in Germany.
On 21 July, the United Kingdom Ministry of Health  reported that a UK resident who had been
treating patients with Ebola in the DRC, was evacuated and is currently isolated in a London
hospital. The individual showed no symptoms and this was deemed a precautionary measure.
The first case reported in Uganda was travel-related and the patient later died (Democratic Republic
of the Congo confirms new Ebola outbreak, WHO scales up support | WHO AFRO, 15 May 2026 ,
Epidemic of Ebola Disease caused by Bundibugyo virus in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and
Uganda determined a public health emergency of international concern, 17 May 2026 ). Health
authorities reported  that 15 confirmed cases in Uganda had travel links to DRC. Additional cases
were identified following contact tracing activities . Uganda postponed a large religious event
(Martyr's Day) that normally takes place on 3 June and has also suspended cross-border transport
activities (Government of Uganda on X: 21 May 2025). On 16 July, Uganda discharged the last Ebola
patient who had been receiving treatment at the Mulago National Referral Isolation Centre. Uganda's
Ministry of Health  announced the start of the 42-day countdown to declaring the end of the
outbreak.
=== PAGE 5 ===
SURVEILLANCE REPORT Weekly Communicable Disease Threats Report, Week 31, 25–31 July 2026
 5
Genomes from DRC and Uganda have been published and preliminary analysis shows sequences
distinct from the previous outbreaks (Virological Ebolavirus/Bundibugyo ebolavirus, 18 May 2026 ).
Information regarding transmission chains and affected population groups is currently limited, partly
due to the complex context of insecurity and humanitarian challenges in the affected areas.
According to WHO, neighbouring countries sharing land borders with DRC are considered at high risk
of further spread due to population mobility, trade and travel links, and uncertainty about the
transmission chains. The outbreak may also be larger than currently detected. There are also
concerns related to this outbreak because it is caused by Bundibugyo virus, rather than the more
commonly detected Orthoebolavirus zairense. Unlike Orthoebolavirus zairense, there are currently
no licenced vaccines or specific treatments for Bundibugyo virus disease. 
Given the information available, the complicated context and the uncertainties regarding
epidemiological information, WHO declared a Public Health Emergency of International Concern on
17 May 2026 (Epidemic of Ebola Disease caused by Bundibugyo virus in the Democratic Republic of
the Congo and Uganda determined a public health emergency of international concern, 17 May
2026 ). On 18 May 2026, Africa CDC declared the outbreak a Public Health Emergency of Continental
Security (Africa CDC Declares the Ongoing Bundibugyo Ebola Outbreak a Public Health Emergency of
Continental Security – Africa CDC, 18 May 2026 ). On 5 June, WHO and Africa CDC launched a joint
continental preparedness and response plan  to support African countries in the response to the
ongoing outbreak.
This is the 17th Ebola disease outbreak reported in DRC. The most recent prior outbreak occurred in
2025 in Kasai Province due to Ebola virus Orthoebolavirus zairense (WHO DON Ebola virus disease –
Democratic Republic of the Congo, 5 September 2025 ). In Ituri province specifically, Ebola disease
due to Ebola virus Orthoebolavirus zairense was last documented during the 2018–2020 outbreak.
This outbreak was declared on 1 August 2018 following reports of laboratory-confirmed cases in
North Kivu province. Investigations identified cases in Ituri and North Kivu with symptom onset from
May 2018. The outbreak also spread to South Kivu. Between 1 August 2018 and 25 June 2020,
when the outbreak was declared over, a total of 3 470 cases were reported, including 3 317
confirmed and 153 probable cases. At the time, WHO declared the outbreak a Public Health
Emergency of International Concern (Disease Outbreak News Ebola virus disease – Democratic
Republic of the Congo, 26 June 2020 , Medical countermeasures during the 2018 Ebola virus disease
outbreak in the North Kivu and Ituri Provinces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo: a rapid
genomic assessment - ScienceDirect ).
Bundibugyo virus was first reported in 2007 in Bundibugyo district in Uganda, during an outbreak.
The most recent outbreak due to Bundibugyo virus was in 2012 in DRC (Uganda: Ebola outbreak
press statement - 20 Dec 2007 - Uganda | ReliefWeb , WHO | Ebola outbreak in Democratic Republic
of Congo, 12 August 2012 ).
On 1 June 2026, a case was reported by Uganda as having had a travel history to the United Arab
Emirates (UAE), arriving on 24 May (Media reports on 1 June 2026 , WHO media briefing on 3 June
2026 , WHO DON 8 June 2026 ). According to WHO, as of 8 June , no cases of Ebola disease have
been reported in the UAE. Public health measures, including risk assessment activities, contact
tracing and follow-up, and strengthened preparedness at points of entry, have been implemented in
coordination with WHO, UAE and international partners.
Travel restrictions
Enhanced control and screening protocols have been activated by authorities in several countries to
limit the risk of viral spread.
Exit screening has been implemented in DRC, Uganda and South Sudan. In DRC , points of entry
(PoE) and points of control (PoC) have been activated at key locations, including airports, road
checkpoints and towns or local transit points, such as Nizi and Irumu  (Ituri), Mudzibala (Bunia), Dele
and Chai (Rwampara). Bunia airport in the Ituri province was temporarily closed on 23 May  and re-
opened on 2 June with the implementation of health screening measures . Commercial flights to and
from Bunia airport were temporarily suspended again as of 6 June , as part of health security
arrangements in response to the Ebola disease outbreak, according to the media .
Uganda's Ministry of Health announced on 15 June 2026 (press release ) that the general public,
travellers, recruitment agencies, travel agents, and all stakeholders departing from Uganda do not
=== PAGE 6 ===
SURVEILLANCE REPORT Weekly Communicable Disease Threats Report, Week 31, 25–31 July 2026
 6
require an 'Ebola-Free Certificate'. The 'Ebola-Free Certificate' is not a requirement for visa
applications to any country. Ebola testing is recommended for symptomatic individuals who develop
symptoms consistent with Ebola virus disease, or those who are identified as contacts of confirmed
Ebola virus disease cases, based on a clinical and epidemiological assessment by health authorities.
Rwanda's Ministry of Health has reinforced health screening and vigilance at land points of entry
along the border with DRC. Enhanced entry control measures have been implemented at Kigali
International Airport for inbound travellers to Rwanda (Rwanda Ministry of Health, 22 May on X ).
Several countries have also implemented entry restrictions and health screening for individuals
travelling from high-risk countries, including the US , Canada , Tunisia , Thailand , Mauritius  and the
Bahamas  (Ebola Update - Travel Measures and Ongoing Monitoring ).
On 24 June, as part of the response to the ongoing outbreak, the Ministry of Health in DRC issued a
decree  enforcing the following measures: contacts of confirmed or probable cases face 21-day active
self-monitoring and restrictions on both domestic and international movement. Healthcare and
response workers returning from affected areas are subject to similar rules, although active
monitoring is not explicitly specified and domestic travel remains permitted. Anyone who has stayed
in an affected province cannot travel internationally for 21 days (the decree does not address any
obligations for actual cases.) In addition, outbound international travellers are required to complete
a mandatory health declaration form issued by border health authorities.
Therapeutics and Vaccines
The University of Oxford's Oxford Vaccine Group  has successfully vaccinated the first volunteer in
the world's first Bundibugyo ebolavirus vaccine trial. The vaccine was developed by scientists at the
University of Oxford’s Oxford Vaccine Group and Pandemic Sciences Institute.
ECDC assessment:
Given the gaps in epidemiological information and limited follow-up of contacts, it is likely that the
outbreak is larger than is currently being reported in terms of the number of affected cases/areas.
Given all the available information and uncertainties surrounding this outbreak, the likelihood of
infection for people from the EU/EEA living in or travelling to affected areas is estimated to be low.
Given the very low likelihood of importation and secondary transmission, the likelihood of infection is
estimated to be very low for people living in the EU/EEA. The overall risk of Bundibugyo virus
transmission through substances of human origin (SoHO) in the EU/EEA is currently assessed as
very low (Risk of Bundibugyo virus transmission through substances of human origin in the
European Union/European Economic Area (EU/EEA ). This assessment will be reviewed as further
information becomes available.
Exit screening in affected countries, including symptom checks and exposure assessment, is
important as it contributes to risk reduction by identifying symptomatic travellers before they board
flights, to prevent them travelling while symptomatic. Exit screening also helps dissuade people with
symptoms from travelling and enhances public and stakeholder confidence. However, it cannot fully
prevent exportation of cases, because the absence of symptoms at departure does not exclude
subsequent onset of disease.
﻿ECDC considers that screening of returning travellers from affected areas (DRC, Uganda) would not
be effective in preventing introduction to Europe. This consideration is based on the lessons learned
and results of the large EVD outbreak in West Africa between 2013 and 2016, where tens of
thousands of cases were reported, transmission was ongoing in large urban centres, and hundreds
of EU/EEA humanitarian and military personnel were deployed to the affected areas. Screening
incoming travellers is time- and resource-consuming and will not effectively identify people with the
infection. Priority should instead be given to providing travellers with clear information on
symptoms, routes of transmission, and what to do if symptoms develop after arrival in the EU/EEA.
Detailed assessment of the event can be found in ECDC's Threat Assessment Brief published on 21
May 2026 (Threat assessment brief: Ebola disease outbreak caused by Bundibugyo virus –
Democratic Republic of the Congo and Uganda – 2026 ).
=== PAGE 7 ===
SURVEILLANCE REPORT Weekly Communicable Disease Threats Report, Week 31, 25–31 July 2026
 7
Actions:
ECDC continues to monitor the outbreak through its epidemic intelligence activities to provide
epidemiological updates, situational awareness and risk assessment for the EU/EEA.
Since 19 May 2026, the EU Health Task Force, in collaboration with the European Civil Protection and
Humanitarian Aid Operations (DG ECHO), the Directorate-General for International Partnerships (DG
INTPA) and the Global Outbreak Alert and Response Network
(GOARN), has been deploying ECDC experts to Addis Ababa (Ethiopia) at Africa CDC's headquarters,
and Kampala (Uganda).
ECDC is actively liaising with key partners, including Africa CDC, the European Commission, and
WHO to provide further support through the EU Health Task Force in response to this outbreak.
ECDC is regularly re-evaluating the situation as new information becomes available and continues to
provide updated epidemiological information, scientific assessments and advice on its website Ebola
disease outbreak in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Uganda .
Last time this event was included in the Weekly CDTR: 24 July 2026
Figure 1. Ebola disease outbreak caused by Bundibugyo virus – Democratic Republic of the
Congo and Uganda – 2026 – map of the affected areas

=== PAGE 8 ===
SURVEILLANCE REPORT Weekly Communicable Disease Threats Report, Week 31, 25–31 July 2026
 8
2. Seasonal surveillance of chikungunya
virus disease - 2026 (weekly)
Overview:
Since the beginning of 2026 and as at 29 July 2026, one country in Europe has reported locally
acquired cases of chikungunya: France (one case).
This is the first locally acquired chikungunya virus disease case reported during the season 2026 in
mainland EU/EEA.
The report is available online .
ECDC assessment:
The current chikungunya virus disease risk assessment  for mainland EU/EEA is available on ECDC’s
dedicated chikungunya virus disease webpage .
Actions:
ECDC will continue to monitor the situation and will publish a weekly report on the occurrence of
chikungunya virus disease cases in the EU/EEA until November 2026.
Further information:
Chikungunya is a mosquito-borne viral disease that is emerging in Europe, with locally acquired
cases reported in several EU/EEA countries. In the light of this development, the European Centre
for Disease Prevention and Control has implemented seasonal enhanced surveillance to monitor the
occurrence of cases in the EU/EEA. The primary objective is to inform public health authorities and
support the implementation of appropriate response measures.
Chikungunya virus disease is a notifiable disease at the EU level and cases are reported in
accordance with the EU case definition . Chikungunya virus disease cases – and their corresponding
case numbers – have been reported to the European surveillance portal for infectious diseases
(EpiPulse Cases).
Please note that cases acquired in Portuguese and Spanish Outermost Regions are included.
However, due to the distinct epidemiological situation and differences in surveillance systems, cases
acquired in the French Outermost Regions are not included.
3. Seasonal surveillance of dengue in
the EU/EEA, weekly report
Overview:
Since the beginning of 2026 and as at 29 July 2026, one country in Europe has reported locally
acquired cases of dengue: France (one case). ﻿This week, no new cases of dengue have been
reported to ECDC.
The report is available online .
ECDC assessment:
The current dengue risk assessment  for mainland EU/EEA is available on ECDC’s dedicated dengue
webpage .
Actions:
ECDC will continue to monitor the situation and will publish a weekly report on the occurrence of
dengue in the EU/EEA until November 2026.
=== PAGE 9 ===
SURVEILLANCE REPORT Weekly Communicable Disease Threats Report, Week 31, 25–31 July 2026
 9
Further information:
Dengue is a mosquito-borne viral disease that is increasingly emerging in Europe, with locally
acquired cases reported in several EU/EEA countries. In the light of this development, ECDC has
implemented seasonal enhanced weekly surveillance to monitor the occurrence of cases in the
EU/EEA. The primary objective is to inform public health authorities and support the implementation
of appropriate response measures. This includes assessing the risk of dengue transmission through
Substances of Human Origin (SoHO).
Dengue is a notifiable disease at the EU level and cases are reported in accordance with the EU case
definition . The table and map in this report show the countries and areas where dengue cases – and
their corresponding case numbers – have been reported to the European surveillance portal for
infectious diseases (EpiPulse Cases).
Please note that cases acquired in Portuguese and Spanish Outermost Regions are included.
However, due to the distinct epidemiological situation and differences in surveillance systems, cases
acquired in the French Outermost Regions are not included.
Last time this event was included in the Weekly CDTR: 24 July 2026
4. Seasonal surveillance of West Nile
Virus infections – 2026 (Weekly report)
Overview:
Since the beginning of the 2026 transmission season, and as at 29 July, 49 areas affected by West
Nile virus (WNV) have been identified in seven countries across Europe. These areas are located
in Italy (30), Greece (eight), Romania (four), North Macedonia (two), Spain (two), France (two), and
Germany (one).
The report is available online .
﻿Throughout the season, ECDC will publish a weekly report  with updates on risk areas for locally
acquired WNV infections. A monthly report  will also be published.
WNV infection in humans is a notifiable disease at EU level and cases should be reported by national
public health authorities through the EpiPulse Cases platform in accordance with the EU case
definition . According to Commission Directives 2004/33/EC  and 2014/110/EU  on blood safety, blood
establishments in European Union/European Economic Area (EU/EEA) countries should apply
temporary deferral criteria for donors of allogeneic blood donation for 28 days after they have left a
risk area for locally acquired WNV, unless an individual nucleic acid test (NAT) is negative. WNV
surveillance activities carried out by ECDC support the competent authorities responsible for blood
safety in the implementation of these directives.
ECDC assessment:
Seasonal weather conditions are currently favourable for mosquito-borne transmission, therefore
more cases are expected to occur in the coming weeks.
Actions:
ECDC will provide weekly and monthly updates with the latest reports on cases of WNV infections in
Europe. A map and table will be updated every Friday from now until November, as this is the time
of year when WNV infections are most likely to be reported.
ECDC will provide an enhanced analysis of the current WNV epidemiology on a monthly basis
together with the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), which includes information on the number
of locally acquired human cases reported, outbreaks of West Nile fever in equids and birds notified to
the Animal Disease Information System (ADIS) of the European Commission, and an assessment of
the situation.
Last time this event was included in the Weekly CDTR: 24 July 2026
=== PAGE 10 ===
SURVEILLANCE REPORT Weekly Communicable Disease Threats Report, Week 31, 25–31 July 2026
 10
5. Seasonal surveillance of Crimean-
Congo haemorrhagic fever - 2026
(Weekly report)
Overview:
Since the beginning of 2026 and as at 29 July 2026, one country in Europe has reported locally
acquired cases of Crimean-Congo haemorrhagic fever (CCHF): Spain (three cases). This week, one
new case of CCHF has been reported to ECDC.
The report is available online .
ECDC assessment:
This is the first time Ciudad Real (province in Spain) has reported a locally acquired human case,
while cases have previously been reported in Salamanca. Hyalomma spp. – the main vectors of
CCHF virus – are widely distributed across the country and CCHF virus is known to circulate in local
animal populations. The timing of these cases aligns with the expected seasonal pattern of CCHF in
Spain.
Although the risk of contracting CCHF for the general population in the areas where the virus is
known to be present in Spain is low, this risk increases for people undertaking outside activities that
expose them to tick bites (e.g. hunting, forestry work, hiking, animal surveillance). As a general
precaution against CCHF, but also against other tick-borne diseases, people who may potentially be
exposed to ticks should apply personal protective measures (ECDC Protective Measures against
ticks ). In Spain, CCHF virus is transmitted to humans mainly by ticks of the genus Hyalomma. While
Hyalomma lusitanicum plays a key role in virus maintenance and transmission dynamics, Hyalomma
marginatum is generally considered to be the principal species involved in transmission to humans.
Hyalomma marginatum  is widely present in southern and eastern Europe  and Hyalomma lusitanicum
is present  in parts of southern Europe .
More information on CCHF can be found in ECDC's factsheet . In December 2023, ECDC published a
report  on the spatial distribution of CCHF based on predicted ecological suitability.
Actions:
ECDC will continue to monitor the situation and will publish a weekly report on the occurrence of
CCHF in the EU/EEA until November 2026.
Further information:
CCHF is a tick-borne viral disease that is emerging in Europe, with locally acquired cases reported in
several EU/EEA countries. In the light of this development, the European Centre for Disease
Prevention and Control has implemented seasonal enhanced surveillance to monitor the occurrence
of cases in the EU/EEA. The primary objective is to inform public health authorities and support the
implementation of appropriate response measures.
CCHF is a notifiable disease at the EU level and cases are reported in accordance with the EU case
definition . CCHF cases – and their corresponding case numbers – have been reported to the
European surveillance portal for infectious diseases (EpiPulse Cases).
Please note that cases acquired in Portuguese and Spanish Outermost Regions are included.
However, due to the distinct epidemiological situation and differences in surveillance systems, cases
acquired in the French Outermost Regions are not included.
Last time this event was included in the Weekly CDTR: 24 July 2026
=== PAGE 11 ===
SURVEILLANCE REPORT Weekly Communicable Disease Threats Report, Week 31, 25–31 July 2026
 11
6. Seasonal monitoring of environmental
suitability for Vibrio spp. risk in coastal
waters - Bathing season 2026
Overview:
Update
Based on forecasts from the Vibrio Viewer , in the next five days (until 5 August 2026), 98
municipalities across 18 regions in six countries are expected to have high environmental suitability*
for Vibrio spp. The highest numbers of municipalities above the threshold have been identified in
Germany (41 municipalities), France (16 municipalities), and Poland (14 municipalities).
A list of areas expected to have high environmental suitability* for Vibrio spp. until 5 August 2026 is
provided below.
Bulgaria: 13 municipalities in three regions:
• Varna: Avren, Byala, Dolni Chiflik, Varna
• Dobrich: Balchik, Kavarna, Shabla
• Burgas: six municipalities
France: 16 municipalities in four regions:
• Gironde: eight municipalities
• Landes: Tarnos
• Charente-Maritime: Chenac-Saint-Seurin-d'Uzet, Le Château-d'Oléron, Le Verdon-sur-Mer,
Royan, Talmont-sur-Gironde
• Bouches-du-Rhône: Arles, Saintes-Maries-de-la-Mer
Germany: 41 municipalities in five regions:
• Vorpommern-Rügen: Dierhagen, Ostseebad, Ribnitz-Damgarten, Bernsteins
• Nordwestmecklenburg: Blowatz, Insel Poel, Ostseebad
• Pinneberg: Haseldorf, Hetlingen
• Stade: Grünendeich, Steinkirchen,Twielenfleth
• Vorpommern-Greifswald: 29 municipalities
The Netherlands: two municipalities in one region:
• Overig Zeeland: Reimerswaal, Tholen
Poland: 14 municipalities in three regions:
• Szczeciński: nine municipalities
• Elbląski: Elbląg, Sztutowo, Tolkmicko
• Gdański: Sztutowo, Tolkmicko
Romania: 12 municipalities in two regions:
• Constanţa: eight municipalities
• Tulcea: Jurilovca, Murighiol, Oras Sulina, Sfantu Gheorghe
Countries are listed in alphabetical order; municipalities are listed only for areas (at NUTS3 level)
with fewer than five affected municipalities. To explore the daily risk for individual municipalities and
specific areas in greater detail, please refer to the interactive Vibrio Viewer map tool .
*Note: high environmental suitability for Vibrio spp. is defined by a suitability index >16.
Background
Vibriosis is an infection caused by species of Vibrio bacteria, which occur naturally in coastal waters,
particularly in warm, brackish environments where freshwater and seawater mix. Environmental
conditions that favour bacterial growth include higher water temperatures and lower salinity [1 ]. In
Europe, Vibrio bacteria are most frequently detected during the summer season. The Baltic Sea
provides particularly favourable conditions due to its relatively low salinity, although Vibrio species
are also found in the North Sea, the Black Sea, and other coastal and estuarine bathing waters [1 , 2 ,
3 , 4 , 5 , 6 ].
=== PAGE 12 ===
SURVEILLANCE REPORT Weekly Communicable Disease Threats Report, Week 31, 25–31 July 2026
 12
Human infection may occur through the consumption of raw or under-cooked seafood, particularly
shellfish, or the exposure of open wounds to contaminated water. Clinical manifestations range from
self-limiting gastroenteritis to wound infections, otitis, and severe invasive disease, including
septicaemia and necrotising soft tissue infections. Individuals with underlying medical conditions,
such as diabetes, chronic liver disease, and immunosuppression, are at increased risk of severe
illness [7 , 8 ].
ECDC assessment:
Climate-driven warming is expected to increase the suitability of coastal areas for bacterial growth.
As sea surface temperatures continue to rise across parts of Europe, environmental conditions
facilitating the potential for Vibrio proliferation and geographical expansion are becoming
increasingly common [2 , 9 , 10 ].
Vibriosis remains relatively uncommon in the EU/EEA. However, locally acquired cases may
occur during summer months, particularly when temperatures are exceptionally high [11 , 12 ].
To reduce the risk of Vibrio infections through food, it is recommended that seafood should be
cooked thoroughly before consumption. Individuals who have open wounds, recent piercings, cuts or
scrapes should avoid swimming in brackish or coastal waters, or cover the affected area with a
waterproof dressing. In case of accidental contact with coastal water, the affected area should be
disinfected and cleaned thoroughly.
Actions:
ECDC monitors the environmental suitability for Vibrio spp. growth in coastal waters during the
summer season. Regular updates are published in the Vibrio Viewer  and the Communicable Disease
Threat Reports  to assess and communicate potential risks to human health across the EU/EEA.
ECDC publishes scientific information and advice on this topic on its dedicated webpage Vibriosis .
Last time this event was included in the Weekly CDTR: 17 July 2026
7. Overview of respiratory virus
epidemiology in the EU/EEA, week 30,
2026
Overview:
Important: This European Respiratory Virus Surveillance Summary (ERVISS) publication follows the
recent transition of reporting surveillance data from The European Surveillance System (TESSy) to
EpiPulse Cases (EPC). As a result of this transition, we have identified a few data inconsistencies. We
are actively working with individual countries to resolve these and any other issue that may arise to
ensure high data quality. During this period, data updates to the GitHub repository will be
paused. Thank you for your patience and understanding.
ECDC monitors respiratory illness rates and virus activity across the EU/EEA. Findings are presented
in the European Respiratory Virus Surveillance Summary (ERVISS.org ), which is updated weekly.
Key visualisation from the weekly bulletin are included below.
Sources: ERVISS
Last time this event was included in the Weekly CDTR: 24 July 2026
=== PAGE 13 ===
SURVEILLANCE REPORT Weekly Communicable Disease Threats Report, Week 31, 25–31 July 2026
 13
Figure 2. ILI/ARI virological surveillance in primary care – weekly test positivity
Source: ECDC
Figure 3. SARI virological surveillance in hospitals – weekly test positivity
Source: ECDC
=== PAGE 14 ===
SURVEILLANCE REPORT Weekly Communicable Disease Threats Report, Week 31, 25–31 July 2026
 14
Figure 4. Key indicators
Source: ECDC
=== PAGE 15 ===
SURVEILLANCE REPORT Weekly Communicable Disease Threats Report, Week 31, 25–31 July 2026
 15
Figure 5. ILI/ARI virological surveillance in primary care – pathogen type and subtype
distribution
Source: ECDC
Figure 6. SARI virological surveillance in hospitals – pathogen type and subtype
distribution
Source: ECDC
=== PAGE 16 ===
SURVEILLANCE REPORT Weekly Communicable Disease Threats Report, Week 31, 25–31 July 2026
 16
Figure 7. Genetically characterised influenza virus distribution, week 40, 2025 – week 30,
2026
Source: ECDC
Figure 8. SARS-CoV-2 variant distribution, week 28, 2026 – week 29, 2026
Source: ECDC
=== PAGE 17 ===
SURVEILLANCE REPORT Weekly Communicable Disease Threats Report, Week 31, 25–31 July 2026
 17
8. World Pride - Netherlands - 2026
Overview:
Update
Since the start of the monitoring period on 20 July, and as of 31 July, no relevant events related to
communicable diseases have been detected in the context of World Pride 2026.
Summary
World Pride 2026  will take place in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, from 25 July to 8 August 2026. The
event is expected to attract a large number of participants, including international visitors from
across the EU/EEA and other regions of the world. Activities will include cultural and artistic
performances, and large-scale social gatherings, culminating in a public parade on 8 August in
central Amsterdam. The event will be hosted across multiple indoor and outdoor venues, some of
which are expected to have high crowd density and prolonged contact among attendees.
 
In recent years, rates of STIs, such as gonorrhoea and syphilis, have continued to increase  among
gay, bisexual and other men who have sex with men in the EU/EEA. In addition, clusters and
outbreaks of other infections that may be transmitted through intimate contact have been reported
among gay, bisexual and other men who have sex with men, including mpox, dermatophilosis , viral
hepatitis and multi-drug and extensively drug-resistant Shigella .
 
For this year's World Pride event in Amsterdam, the main recommendations stated in the 2017
ECDC risk assessment , ECDC's guidance on HIV and STI prevention  among men who have sex with
men , ECDC's public health considerations on mpox , and ECDC's guidance on PrEP  remain relevant.
Additional considerations regarding Shigella prevention are outlined in ECDC's epidemiological
update 2026 .
A joint public health advice for WorldPride events in the Netherlands, 2026   was published on 21 July
by ECDC, together with the World Health Organization (WHO) Regional Office for Europe and the
National Institute for Public Health and the Environment of the Netherlands. This aim of this advice
is to help make sure everyone can enjoy the festivities safely, and to raise awareness of health
recommendations on a range of health topics, from sexually transmitted infections through to
vaccination, respiratory illnesses, and food and water safety.
The local and regional public health authorities in Amsterdam have reinforced facilities for early
detection, epidemiological surveillance, diagnostics, sampling and sequencing and preventive
community measures for those populations most at risk and in spaces where exposure may occur.
Building on these preparedness measures, ECDC recommends that public health authorities work
with civil society organisations and other partners to ensure that gay, bisexual and other men who
have sex with men have access to accurate information and services. Participants attending World
Pride events are advised to be mindful of the following:
 
• Ensure that routine vaccination and boosters are up-to-date in accordance with the national
immunisation recommendations in the country of residence, including hepatitis A vaccination. It
is advised that participants discuss the need for additional vaccinations, such as mpox, or
booster doses, with their healthcare providers.
• Ensure coverage with valid health insurance or obtain a European Health Insurance Card.
• Educate themselves prior to attendance on the prevention of STIs, including recommendations
on HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis, and familiarise themselves with additional advice and
information on the event website.
• Consult a healthcare provider in the home country to discuss other precautions based on a
sexual health risk assessment: they may recommend pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) for HIV,
but remember that PrEP does not protect against other STIs.
• Practise safer sex using condoms to prevent STIs, including HIV and hepatitis B and C.
• Although using a condom is an important protective measure, it does not provide full protection
against mpox, as mpox can be transmitted through close skin-to-skin contact, especially if there
are rashes, sores, or lesions on the skin. This is also valid for dermatophilosis.
• Avoid sexual activity and seek healthcare in the event of STI symptoms, including
gastrointestinal symptoms and symptoms suggestive of mpox and dermatophilosis, in
themselves or any sexual partner.
=== PAGE 18 ===
SURVEILLANCE REPORT Weekly Communicable Disease Threats Report, Week 31, 25–31 July 2026
 18
• Avoid faecal-oral exposure during sexual activity in order to prevent other infections such as
shigellosis and hepatitis A (i.e. washing hands, genital and anal areas before and after sexual
contact, always using a condom, changing condoms between anal and oral sex, using gloves or
condoms on sex toys, using dental dams for oral sex and latex gloves for fingering or fisting). If
gastrointestinal symptoms appear, inform healthcare providers of sexual activities, and abstain
from sex until symptoms resolve.
• Follow standard hygiene measures and advice on the prevention of food and waterborne
diseases to decrease the risk of gastrointestinal illnesses and consider general hygiene/food
safety practices when consuming food and drink.
• If exposed to HIV, hepatitis A or B, or mpox infection, participants should contact a healthcare
provider as soon as possible for advice, as post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) is available for
some infections in the form of vaccination or tablets and should be started as soon as possible
(within 72 hours for HIV).
• If experiencing symptoms suggestive of an infection, participants should contact a healthcare
provider at the event. People with STIs may not have any symptoms, but common symptoms
include: unusual discharge from the genitals or rectum, itching, pain during urination, rectal
pain, skin changes (including rashes or blister-like lesions), yellowing of the skin, pain during
sex, and influenza-like symptoms. If participants have any of these symptoms, or experience
severe diarrhoea (which can be caused by shigella or hepatitis A), they should avoid sexual
activity and seek healthcare promptly.
• In general, if they have engaged in unprotected sexual activity with a casual partner,
participants should consider contacting a healthcare provider for advice on testing for STIs,
including mpox, HIV and hepatitis, as STIs can be present without causing any symptoms.
• Alternatively, the European Test Finder tool  can be used to identify the most conveniently
located testing centre. Known partners of those diagnosed should be notified, and offered
testing and treatment according to clinical guidelines.
People attending World Pride who acquire an infection may contribute to onward transmission of
infections within sexual networks in their home countries. The EU/EEA countries should consider
raising awareness among clinicians and laboratory professionals accordingly and prepare to provide
post-exposure prophylaxis (where indicated), testing, treatment, and partner management of
identified cases.
ECDC assessment:
STIs, HIV, hepatitis, mpox and shigellosis continue to be reported in sexual networks among gay,
bisexual and other men who have sex with men in Europe. People attending World Pride 2026 who
have sex with non-steady or multiple partners may have an increased probability of acquiring an STI
or another infection transmitted through sexual contact, particularly if preventive measures are not
taken consistently.
The probability of EU/EEA citizens becoming infected with other communicable diseases while
attending World Pride 2026 is low if general preventive measures are applied (e.g. being fully
vaccinated according to national immunisation schedules, following advice regarding hand and food
hygiene and respiratory etiquette, self-isolating with flu-like symptoms until they resolve, wearing a
mask in crowded settings, seeking prompt testing and medical advice as needed, and practising safe
sex).
In 2017, ECDC published a rapid risk assessment  on communicable disease risks associated with
WorldPride in Madrid. Its main recommendations remain relevant, alongside ECDC guidance on HIV
and STI prevention among men who have sex with men , ECDC's public health considerations for
mpox , and ECDC guidance on PrEP . Additional prevention advice is available in the Joint public
health advice for WorldPride events in the Netherlands, 2026 .
Actions:
ECDC will monitor this event through its epidemic intelligence activities between 20 July and 14
August 2026 in collaboration with the Dutch health authorities and WHO's Regional Office for
Europe, and will include weekly updates in the Communicable Disease Threats Report (CDTR).
=== PAGE 19 ===
SURVEILLANCE REPORT Weekly Communicable Disease Threats Report, Week 31, 25–31 July 2026
 19
Further information:
Joint public health advice for WorldPride events in the Netherlands, 2026
Rapid Risk Assessment: Potential public health risks related to communicable diseases at the
WorldPride festival in Madrid, 23 June–2 July 2017
ECDC STI Annual Epidemiological Reports for 2024 data
Public health guidance on HIV and STI prevention among men who have sex with men
ECDC HIV Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis in the EU/EEA and the UK: implementation, standards and
monitoring
Clusters of dermatophilosis in five EU/EEA countries in 2025–2026
Last time this event was included in the Weekly CDTR: 24 July 2026
9. Expert deployment
Overview:
Since 19 May 2026, the EU Health Task Force (EUHTF) has been supporting preparedness and
response efforts related to the Ebola disease outbreak caused by Bundibugyo virus in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo (DRC) and Uganda.
Seven ECDC experts have been deployed on a rotational basis to support Africa CDC, initially at its
headquarters in Addis Ababa and, since 23 June 2026, within the Continental Incident Management
Support Team (IMST) in Uganda. The deployments are part of the project 'Health Security and One
Health in Africa - Africa CDC' in partnership with ECDC and EFSA (PHASE II), funded by the
European Commission's Directorate-General for International Partnerships (DG INTPA). The experts
have provided support for surveillance and liaison activities.
Between 15 and 22 June 2026, the EUHTF deployed a team of three ECDC experts and two Member
State experts to Kinshasa (DRC) and Kampala (Uganda), to conduct a Point of Entry fact-finding
mission with a view to evaluating the implementation and operational performance of exit screening
procedures.
Between 16 June and 8 July 2026, an ECDC Risk Communication and Community Engagement
(RCCE) expert was deployed to the WHO country office in Juba, South Sudan, in response to a
request for assistance from the Global Outbreak Alert and Responses Network (GOARN). The expert
supported the implementation of the country's RCCE field plan to strengthen community
engagement and address the priority risk communication and community engagement gaps in the
high-risk areas. Since 14 July, two ECDC fellows have also been deployed through GOARN to the
WHO country office in Juba, South Sudan, to support surveillance and data analysis activities.
These activities are being conducted in close coordination with national authorities and the EU
delegations, and in collaboration with the Directorate-General for European Civil Protection and
Humanitarian Aid Operations (DG ECHO) and DG INTPA.
Last time this event was included in the Weekly CDTR: 24 July 2026
=== PAGE 20 ===
SURVEILLANCE REPORT Weekly Communicable Disease Threats Report, Week 31, 25–31 July 2026
 20
10. Avian influenza A(H9N2) – Multi-
country (World) – Monitoring human
cases
Overview:
Summary
On 31 July 2026, four new laboratory-confirmed human cases of avian influenza A(H9N2) virus
infection in China were reported in the Avian Influenza Weekly Update (Number 1055) published by
WHO Western Pacific Region .
The four cases, which were geographically distinct from each other, involved the following:
• A 72-year-old woman from Jiangxi Province with symptom onset on 5 July 2026;
• A 12-year-old boy from Jiangsu Province with symptom onset on 6 July 2026;
• A 3-year-old girl from Gansu Province with symptom onset on 11 July 2026;
• A 58-year-old woman from Yunnan Province with symptom onset on 13 July 2026.
Two cases had underlying chronic respiratory conditions and were hospitalised, while the other two
cases had mild symptoms and did not require hospitalisation. All four cases made a full recovery.
One case had direct exposure to live poultry, while the other three had potential exposure to live
poultry stalls or wet markets.
Background
Since 2015, a total of 174 laboratory-confirmed human cases of avian influenza A(H9N2) virus
infection have been reported from China to WHO.
ECDC assessment:
Sporadic human infections with avian influenza A(H9N2) have been observed outside of the EU/EEA.
One case has also been reported in the EU/EEA, with exposure history during travel outside of
Europe. Direct contact with infected birds or contaminated environments is the most likely source of
human infection with avian influenza viruses. In most cases, influenza A(H9N2) leads to mild clinical
illness. To date, no clusters of human A(H9N2) infection have been reported. There is no evidence
that the virus has acquired the ability for sustained transmission among humans. The risk related to
zoonotic avian influenza (due to A(H9N2) viruses) for the general population in the EU/EEA is
currently considered very low.
Actions:
ECDC monitors avian influenza strains through its epidemic intelligence and disease network
activities. Together with the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) and the EU Reference
Laboratory for Avian Influenza, ECDC produces a quarterly report on the avian influenza situation .
The most recent report was published in June 2026.
Sources: Event Information Site for IHR National Focal Points
Last time this event was included in the Weekly CDTR: 17 July 2026
=== PAGE 21 ===
SURVEILLANCE REPORT Weekly Communicable Disease Threats Report, Week 31, 25–31 July 2026
 21
11. Cholera – Multi-country (World) –
Monitoring global outbreaks – Monthly
update
Overview:
Data presented in this report originate from several sources, both official public health authorities and non-official
sources, such as the media. Case definitions, testing strategies and surveillance systems vary between countries.
In addition, data completeness and levels of under-reporting vary between countries. All data should therefore be
interpreted with caution. For details on the epidemiological situation and more information regarding the case
definitions in use, refer to the original sources.
Update
Since 22 June 2026 and as of 27 July 2026, 8 247 new cholera cases, including 326 new deaths,
have been reported worldwide.
New cases have been reported from Afghanistan, Angola, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African
Republic, Chad, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Haiti, Kenya, Malawi, Mozambique,
Myanmar/Burma, Pakistan, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen.
The five countries reporting most cases are Democratic Republic of the Congo (3 841), Sudan (1
502), Somalia (962), Central African Republic (445) and Malawi (383).
New deaths have been reported from Afghanistan, Angola, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African
Republic, Chad, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Haiti, Mozambique, Sudan and Yemen.
The five countries reporting most new deaths are Sudan (153), Democratic Republic of the Congo
(105), Central African Republic (36), Angola (12) and Cameroon (12).
In addition, 18 253 new cases were reported or collected retrospectively from before 22 June 2026.
In the previous reporting period (26 May to 22 June 2026), 19 659 new cholera cases, including 261
new deaths, were reported worldwide.
Since 1 January 2026 and as of 27 July 2026, 132 313 cholera cases, including 1 556 deaths, have
been reported worldwide.
In comparison, since 1 January 2025 and as of 27 July 2025, 306 615 cholera cases, including 3 752
deaths, were reported worldwide.
Since the last update, new cases and new deaths have been reported from:
Asia:
Afghanistan :
Since 18 May 2026 and as of 15 June 2026, 16 577 new cases, including 12 new deaths have been
reported. Since 01 January 2026 and as of 15 June 2026, 56 662 cases, including 28 deaths have
been reported. In comparison, in 2025 and as of 23 June 2025, 68 031 cases, including 26 deaths
were reported.
Myanmar/Burma :
Since 06 April 2026 and as of 15 June 2026, 106 new cases have been reported. Since 1 January
2026 and as of 15 June 2026, 257 cases have been reported. In comparison, in 2025 and as of 16
June 2025, 1 888 cases were reported.
Pakistan :
Since 20 April 2026 and as of 18 May 2026, 701 new cases have been reported. Since 1 January
2026 and as of 18 May 2026, 3 305 cases have been reported. In comparison, in 2025 and as of 21
July 2025, 14 760 cases were reported.
=== PAGE 22 ===
SURVEILLANCE REPORT Weekly Communicable Disease Threats Report, Week 31, 25–31 July 2026
 22
Taiwan :
Since 09 July 2023 and as of 19 June 2026, 1 new case has been reported. Since 1 January 2026
and as of 19 June 2026, one case has been reported. In comparison, in 2025 and as of 27 July
2025, no cases were reported. This case was briefly described in the previous monthly report.
Yemen :
Since 04 May 2026 and as of 08 June 2026, 696 new cases, including one new death, has been
reported. Since 1 January 2026 and as of 08 June 2026, 5 054 cases, including seven deaths, have
been reported. In comparison, in 2025 and as of 23 June 2025, 41 510 cases, including 129 deaths,
were reported.
Since 22 June 2026, no updates have been reported by: India.
Africa:
Angola :
Since 14 June 2026 and as of 12 July 2026, 303 new cases, including 12 new deaths, have been
reported. Since 1 January 2026  and as of 12 July 2026, 5 379 cases, including 116 deaths, have
been reported. In comparison, in 2025 and as of 08 July 2025, 27 008 cases, including 756 deaths
were reported.
Burundi :
Since 14 June 2026 and as of 12 July 2026, 165 new cases, including one new death, have been
reported. Since 1 January 2026 and as of 12 July 2026, 1 538 cases, including four deaths, have
been reported. In comparison, in 2025 and as of 08 July 2025, 217 cases were reported.
Cameroon :
Since 31 December 2025 and as of 12 July 2026, 331 new cases, including 12 new deaths, have
been reported. Since 1 January 2026 and as of 12 July 2026, 331 cases, including 12 deaths, have
been reported. In comparison, in 2025 and as of 27 July 2025, no cases were reported.
Central  African Republic : Since 1 November 2016 and as of 9 July 2026, 445 new cases, including
36 new deaths, have been reported. Since 1 January 2026 and as of 9 July 2026, 445 cases,
including 36 deaths, have been reported. In comparison, in 2025 and as of 27 July 2025, no cases
were reported.
Chad :
Since 31 December 2025 and as of 12 July 2026, 120 new cases, including four new deaths, have
been reported. Since 1 January 2026 and as of 12 July 2026, 120 cases, including four deaths, have
been reported. In comparison, in 2025 and as of 27 July 2025, no cases were reported.
Democratic  Republic of the Congo : Since 14 June 2026 and as of 12 July 2026, 3 841 new cases,
including 105 new deaths, have been reported. Since 1 January 2026 and as of 12 July 2026, 33
182 cases, including 943 deaths, have been reported. In comparison, in 2025 and as of 8 July 2025,
32 456 cases, including 737 deaths, were reported.
Kenya :
Since 14 June 2026 and as of 12 July 2026, two new cases have been reported. Since 1 January
2026 and as of 12 July 2026, 39 cases have been reported. In comparison, in 2025 and as of 30
April 2025, 125 cases, including six deaths, were reported.
Malawi :
Since 14 June 2026 and as of 12 July 2026, 383 new cases have been reported. Since 1 January
2026 and as of 12 July 2026, 2 998 cases, including five deaths, have been reported. In comparison,
in 2025 and as of 7 April 2025, 91 cases, including three deaths, were reported.
Mozambique :
Since 14 June 2026 and as of 12 July 2026, 193 new cases, including three new deaths, have been
reported. Since 1 January 2026 and as of 12 July 2026, 7 379 cases, including 64 deaths, have been
reported. In comparison, in 2025 and as of 8 July 2025, 3 832 cases, including 41 deaths, were
reported.
=== PAGE 23 ===
SURVEILLANCE REPORT Weekly Communicable Disease Threats Report, Week 31, 25–31 July 2026
 23
Somalia :
Since 14 June 2026 and as of 12 July 2026, 962 new cases have been reported. Since 1 January
2026 and as of 12 July 2026, 2 168 cases have been reported. In comparison, in 2025 and as of 8
July 2025, 5 414 cases, including eight deaths, were reported.
Sudan :
Since 11 January 2026 and as of 12 July 2026, 1 502 new cases, including 153 new deaths, have
been reported. Since 1 January 2026 and as of 12 July 2026, 1 511 cases, including 153 deaths,
have been reported. In comparison, in 2025 and as of 8 July 2025, 32 230 cases, including 774
deaths, were reported.
Since 22 June 2026, no updates have been reported by: Congo, Ethiopia, Namibia, Nigeria, Rwanda,
South Sudan, United Republic of Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
Americas:
Haiti :
Since 06 April 2026 and as of 18 May 2026, 172 new cases, including one new death, have been
reported. Since 1 January 2026 and as of 18 May 2026, 529 cases, including two deaths, have been
reported. In comparison, in 2025 and as of 23 June 2025, 2 496 cases, including 31 deaths, were
reported.
ECDC assessment:
Cholera cases have continued to be reported in Africa and Asia, the Middle East, and the Americas.
In this context, although the likelihood of cholera infection for travellers visiting these countries
remains low, sporadic importation of cases to the EU/EEA is possible.
In the EU/EEA, cholera is rare and primarily associated with travel to endemic countries. Since 2025,
only events of locally acquired cholera cases are reported at the EU/EEA level; however, imported
and locally acquired cholera cases are reported to the World Health Organization (WHO) on an
annual basis. In 2024 , 16 imported cases were reported by eight EU/EEA countries, while 12 were
reported in 2023 , 29 in 2022, two in 2021, and none in 2020. In 2019, 25 cases were reported in
EU/EEA countries (including the United Kingdom). All cases had a travel history to cholera-affected
areas.
Vaccination should be considered for travellers at higher risk of infection, such as emergency and
relief workers who may be directly exposed. Vaccination is generally not recommended for other
travellers. Travellers to cholera-endemic areas should seek advice from travel health clinics to
assess their personal risk, and apply precautionary sanitary and hygiene measures to prevent
infection. Such measures can include drinking bottled water or water treated with chlorine, carefully
washing fruit and vegetables with bottled or chlorinated water before consumption, regularly
washing hands with soap, eating thoroughly cooked food, and avoiding the consumption of raw
seafood products.
Actions:
ECDC continues to monitor cholera outbreaks globally through its epidemic intelligence activities in
order to identify significant changes in epidemiology and provide timely updates to public health
authorities.
Reports are published on a monthly basis. The worldwide overview of cholera outbreaks is available
on ECDC's website .
Last time this event was included in the Weekly CDTR: 26 June 2026
=== PAGE 24 ===
SURVEILLANCE REPORT Weekly Communicable Disease Threats Report, Week 31, 25–31 July 2026
 24
Figure 9. Geographical distribution of cholera cases reported worldwide from May to July
2026
Source: ECDC
Figure 10. Geographical distribution of cholera cases reported globally from July 2025 to
July 2026
Source: ECDC
=== PAGE 25 ===
SURVEILLANCE REPORT Weekly Communicable Disease Threats Report, Week 31, 25–31 July 2026
 25
Events under active monitoring
· Cholera – Multi-country (World) – Monitoring global outbreaks – Monthly update - last reported
on 31 July 2026
· Avian influenza A(H9N2) – Multi-country (World) – Monitoring human cases - last reported on
31 July 2026
· Overview of respiratory virus epidemiology in the EU/EEA, week 30, 2026 - last reported on 31
July 2026
· Ebola disease outbreak caused by Bundibugyo virus – Democratic Republic of the Congo and
Uganda – 2026 - last reported on 31 July 2026
· Expert deployment - last reported on 31 July 2026
· Seasonal surveillance of chikungunya virus disease - 2026 (weekly) - last reported on 31 July
2026
· Seasonal surveillance of dengue in the EU/EEA, weekly report - last reported on 31 July 2026
· Seasonal surveillance of Crimean-Congo haemorrhagic fever - 2026 (Weekly report) - last
reported on 31 July 2026
· Seasonal surveillance of West Nile Virus infections – 2026 (Weekly report) - last reported on 31
July 2026
· Seasonal monitoring of environmental suitability for Vibrio spp. risk in coastal waters - Bathing
season 2026 - last reported on 31 July 2026
· World Pride - Netherlands - 2026 - last reported on 31 July 2026
· Airport malaria in Germany - last reported on 24 July 2026
· Cyclosporiasis - USA - 2026 - last reported on 17 July 2026
· Risk assessments under production - last reported on 17 July 2026
· Influenza A(H5)- Multi-country (World)- Monitoring human cases  - last reported on 17 July
2026
· Human cases of swine influenza A(H3N2) variant virus – Multi-country - last reported on 17
July 2026
· Mpox in the EU/EEA, Western Balkans and Türkiye – 2026 - last reported on 17 July 2026
· Influenza A(H5N1) – Multi-country (World) – Monitoring human cases - last reported on 17 July
2026
· SARS-CoV-2 variant classification - last reported on 03 July 2026
· Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) – Multi-country – Monthly update -
last reported on 03 July 2026